V17 feature branch (#1580)
stellar/js-stellar-sdk: CHANGELOG.md

* The `xdr` namespace is rebuilt on `@stellar/js-xdr` v5, and **every XDR value now has a different API** ([#1422](https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-sdk/pull/1422)). The wire format is unchanged: bytes and base64 written by older SDKs still decode, and vice versa. Any code that reads or builds `xdr.*` values must be updated. The main shifts:
  * Unions are discriminated classes. `.switch()` becomes a `.type` string literal, arm getters like `.contractData()` become properties, and `new xdr.LedgerEntryData(disc, val)` becomes a factory call such as `xdr.LedgerEntryData.contractData(val)`.
  * Enums are singletons, not factory calls: `xdr.ContractDataDurability.persistent()` becomes `xdr.ContractDataDurability.persistent`.
  * Primitives are plain JS values. Integers are `number` or `bigint` instead of class wrappers, `LargeInt` subclasses are gone, byte fields are `Uint8Array`, and fields are `readonly`.
  * Absent optional fields decode to `null` instead of `undefined`, so `=== undefined` checks silently stop matching. Prefer `== null`.

>   * Acronyms in method names collapse to single-initial-cap form, with no back-compat aliases. This reaches beyond the `xdr` namespace to the wrapper classes: `Transaction#toXDR()`, `TransactionBuilder.fromXDR()`, `Operation.fromXDRObject()`, `Asset#toXDRObject()`, `contract.AssembledTransaction#toXDR()` and others all gained the `Xdr` spelling.

Reviewer: why are some of these `#`s and some aren't?

  * New: `toJson()` / `fromJson()` for [SEP-0051](https://stellar.org/protocol/sep-51) JSON, `toXdrObject()` / `fromXdrObject()` on XDR values, and `equals()` for structural comparison. Failures throw `xdr.XdrError`, which is now exported.
  * Removed: `Reader` and `Writer`; the v4 runtime type constructors (`Hyper`, `UnsignedHyper`, `Option`, `Opaque`, `VarOpaque`, `XDRArray`, `XDRString`, `Bool`, `SignedInt`, `UnsignedInt`), plus top-level `Hyper` / `UnsignedHyper` / `cereal`; the `validateXDR()` static on every type (use `try`/`catch` around `fromXdr`); and `xdr.scvSortedMap` (use the top-level `scvSortedMap`).
  * `ScInt` and `XdrLargeInt` lost their `.int` property; read `.value` (a `bigint`) instead, and note `valueOf()` now returns a `bigint`.

>   [`docs/XDR_MIGRATION.md`](./docs/XDR_MIGRATION.md) covers every change with before/after examples and a quick-reference table.

Reviewer: This should be earlier, either before the top-level bullet or first bullet and also bolded.

* Rebuilding the XDR layer changed a few SDK-level behaviors that don't involve typing `xdr.` yourself. Most of these fail silently, so they won't surface as compile errors ([#1422](https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-sdk/pull/1422)):

>   * `scValToNative` returns a `Uint8Array` for an `scvString` / `scvSymbol` whose contents aren't valid UTF-8. It previously always returned a string, substituting U+FFFD — its byte-returning branch was unreachable. Guards like `typeof result === "string"` and calls like `result.startsWith(...)` are now data-dependent. The same applies to `contract.Spec#scValToNative` and `#funcResToNative` for `Bytes` / `BytesN`, which return `Uint8Array`; those are generically typed, so TypeScript won't flag it.

Reviewer: > whose contents aren't valid UTF-8

Symbol will always be UTF8

Author: Its not guaranteed since you can also provide bytes outside of the utf8 range

Reviewer: Symbols are guaranteed by Core itself to always be in the range `[A-Za-z_]` or something like that.

Reviewer: Aha: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/ae300437d15c1653eaefa1341ec829045c49a22f/core/cap-0046-01.md?plain=1#L257

>   * `scValToNative` returns a `Uint8Array` for an `scvString` / `scvSymbol` whose contents aren't valid UTF-8. It previously always returned a string, substituting U+FFFD — its byte-returning branch was unreachable. Guards like `typeof result === "string"` and calls like `result.startsWith(...)` are now data-dependent. The same applies to `contract.Spec#scValToNative` and `#funcResToNative` for `Bytes` / `BytesN`, which return `Uint8Array`; those are generically typed, so TypeScript won't flag it.

Reviewer: It'd be cool and easy to link each of these methods to its docs URL since AI can prolly one-shot that. Not a blocker by any means but could be an easy readability win.

>   * `Operation.fromXdrObject` decodes `manageData`'s `name`, `setOptions`'s `homeDomain`, and `revokeSponsorship`'s data-entry name as UTF-8 rather than ASCII. For any byte ≥ `0x80` the string differs (`[0xC3, 0xA9]` now decodes to `"é"`, was `"C)"`), so round-tripping a decoded name can produce different wire bytes.

Reviewer: Uhhhh don't like that.. why?

Author: Uh well the scValToNative claim about strings and symbols is just wrong I checked js-base and its always fallen back to return bytes when the utf8 decode failed. 

The manageData entry is also stale. The strings provided for this operation get validated to be ascii so its not possible to get that different wire bytes when round-tripping

Reviewer: Hmm okay fair enough, so it's just more correct in general

>   * `SorobanDataBuilder` setters rebuild their internal data instead of mutating it, so a value captured from `getFootprint()` before a `setReadOnly` / `setReadWrite` / `setResources` call is a stale snapshot. Re-read it after each call. The mutate-through idiom `builder.getFootprint().readOnly(keys)` is gone — footprint fields are readonly arrays.

Reviewer: > mutate-through idiom is gone 

not much of a builder then no?

Author: The entry is a tad misleading. It still is a builder but mutability of xdr allowed you to get the `xdr.LedgerFootprint` and make changes to it which would also land on the `SorobanDataBuilder` instance you created.

Reviewer: Ahhh sure, so getFootprint returns a copy instead

  * `MuxedAccount#setId` no longer mutates an `xdr.MuxedAccount` you already obtained from `toXdrObject()`; call it again after `setId`.
  * `contract.Spec#nativeToScVal` accepts only a plain `Map` (the check tightened from `instanceof Map` to `constructor === Map`), so a `Map` subclass passed for a `Map`-typed parameter now throws.

* `HorizonApi.TransactionFailedExtras`'s `result_codes.operations` is now optional (`operations?: string[]`). Horizon omits the field when a transaction fails a transaction-level check (e.g. `tx_bad_seq`) and no operations were evaluated, so the type now matches the wire format. Under `strictNullChecks`, unguarded reads of the raw response (`extras.result_codes.operations.map(...)`) no longer compile; guard them, or use `TransactionFailedError.getResultCodes()`, which normalizes the omitted field to `[]` ([#1527](https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-sdk/issues/1527)).

### Added

> - `rpc.Server.getExternalRefWasmHash(ref)`: resolves a CAP-85 external executable reference to the 32-byte Wasm hash it names, by reading the persistent tag entry on the owner contract ([#1577](https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-sdk/pull/1577)).

Reviewer: nit: comma splice

```suggestion
- `rpc.Server.getExternalRefWasmHash(ref)`: resolves a CAP-85 external executable reference to the 32-byte Wasm hash it names by reading the persistent tag entry on the owner contract ([#1577](https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-sdk/pull/1577)).
```

> - The XDR schema now covers [CAP-83](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0083.md) (empty transaction set values) and [CAP-85](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0085.md) (external contract executables), adding `xdr.StellarValueType.stellarValueEmptyTxSet` with the `xdr.StellarValueExtEmptyTxSet` arm and its `xdr.StellarValueProposedValue` struct, `xdr.ContractExecutableType.contractExecutableExternalRef` with the `xdr.ContractExecutableExternalRefArm` arm and its `xdr.ContractExecutableExternalRef` struct (an `executableOwner` address plus a `tag`), and the `xdr.ScValType.scvExecutableTag` / `xdr.ScValExecutableTag` value ([#1577](https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-sdk/pull/1577)).

Reviewer: no need to apply this, but it's good to know the shorthand:

```suggestion
- The XDR schema now covers [CAP-83](https://stellar.org/protocol/cap-85) (empty transaction set values) and [CAP-85](https://stellar.org/protocol/cap-85) (external contract executables), adding `xdr.StellarValueType.stellarValueEmptyTxSet` with the `xdr.StellarValueExtEmptyTxSet` arm and its `xdr.StellarValueProposedValue` struct, `xdr.ContractExecutableType.contractExecutableExternalRef` with the `xdr.ContractExecutableExternalRefArm` arm and its `xdr.ContractExecutableExternalRef` struct (an `executableOwner` address plus a `tag`), and the `xdr.ScValType.scvExecutableTag` / `xdr.ScValExecutableTag` value ([#1577](https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-sdk/pull/1577)).
```

Reviewer: Usually we don't detail the XDR changes like this... I barely understand a word of this lol. Either way I'd say you should break it into two bullets (one per CAP).
